6) What is Callback?

    The callback is a technique in which a method calls back the caller method.
    The callback is an asynchronous equivalent for a function.
    Both of the above.
    None of the above.

Answer: B is the correct option. The callback is an asynchronous equivalent for a function



next →
← prev
Node.js MCQ

1) Which of the following statement is correct?

    js is Server Side Language.
    js is the Client Side Language.
    js is both Server Side and Client Side Language.
    None of the above.

2) What does the REPL stand for?

    REPL stands for "Read Eval Print Loop."
    REPL stands for "Research Eval Program Learn."
    REPL stands for "Read Earn Point Learn."
    REPL stands for "Read Eval Point Loop."

Answer: A is the correct option. REPL stands for "Read Eval Print Loop".

3) Which of the following command is used to start a REPL session?

    $ node
    $ node start
    $ node repl
    $ node console

4) In which language is Node.js written?

    JavaScript
    C
    C++
    CoffeeScript
    All of the above

5) Which of the following command is used to install the Node.js express module?

    $ npm install express
    $ node install express
    $ install express
    None of the above

6) What is Callback?

    The callback is a technique in which a method calls back the caller method.
    The callback is an asynchronous equivalent for a function.
    Both of the above.
    None of the above.

Answer: B is the correct option. The callback is an asynchronous equivalent for a function.

7) Which of the following extension is used to save the Node.js files?

    .js
    .node
    .java
    .txt

8) The Node.js modules can be exposed using:

    expose
    module
    exports
    All of the above

Answer: C is the correct option. The Node.js modules can be exposed using module.export

) Which of the following module is not a built-in node module?

    zlib
    https
    dgram
    fsread

Answer: D is the correct option. The "fsread" is not a built-in node module.

11) What does the fs module stand for?

    File Service
    File System  ->correct
    File Store
    File Sharing

13) Which of the following template engines can be used with Node.js?

    Jade
    Vash
    Handlebars
    All of the above

Answer: C is the correct option. Handlebars are the template engines that can be used with Node.js




14) Which of the following code print the platform of operating system?

    console.log('platform : ' + os.platform);
    console.log('platform : ' + os.platform());
    console.log('platform : ' + os.getPlatform());
    None of the above.

Answer: B is the correct option. The os.platform() returns the operating system platform


15) Which of the following method is used to return the current working directory of the process?

    cwd();
    cwd();
    pwd();
    None of the above.

Answer: A is the correct option. The process.cwd() method is used to return the current working directory of the process.




19) What is the default scope in the Node.js application?

    Global
    Local
    Global Function
    Local to object

Answer: B is the correct option. Local is the default scope in the Node.js application



23) Which of the following shortcut command is used to kill a process in Node.js?

    
    Ctrl + C



25) What is the main usage of Node.js terminal (REPL)?

    To specify the preview of the Node.js application.
    For testing Node.js/JavaScript expressions.
    For executing browser's JavaScript expressions.
    None of the above.

Answer: B is the correct option. The Node.js terminal (REPL) is used for testing Node.js/JavaScript expressions





27) Which of the following is used to test if two nodes are equal?

    ==
    equal()
    isEqualNode()
    None of the above.

Answer: C is the correct option. The "isEqualNode()" is used to test if two nodes are equal.


23) 



